[Ready] README polish (#602)
status-im/nim-beacon-chain: README.md

> Nimbus beacon chain is a research implementation of the beacon chain component of the upcoming Ethereum Serenity upgrade, aka Eth2. See the main [Nimbus](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus/) project for the bigger picture.

Reviewer: I think the link towards nimbus should be removed here as it is under "Related" now + the sentence sounds confusing and makes me want to click on that link instead.

## Related

* [status-im/nimbus](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus/): main Nimbus repository - start here to learn more about the Nimbus eco-system
* [ethereum/eth2.0-specs](https://github.com/ethereum/eth2.0-specs/blob/v0.9.2/specs/core/0_beacon-chain.md): Serenity specification that this project implements
* [ethereum/beacon\_chain](https://github.com/ethereum/beacon_chain): reference implementation from the Ethereum foundation

You can check where the beacon chain fits in the Ethereum research ecosystem in the [Status Athenaeum](https://github.com/status-im/athenaeum/blob/b465626cc551e361492e56d32517b2cdadd7493f/ethereum_research_records.json#L38).

## Table of Contents

> - [Ethereum Beacon Chain](#ethereum-beacon-chain)

Reviewer 2: we use https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc for this in the eth2/p2p spec, it's pretty nifty

Author: I'm not too sure I see the advantages compared to the VScode extensions?

  - [Related](#related)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [For users](#for-users)
    - [Connecting to testnets](#connecting-to-testnets)
  - [Interop (for other Eth2 clients)](#interop-for-other-eth2-clients)
  - [For researchers](#for-researchers)
    - [State transition simulation](#state-transition-simulation)
    - [Beacon node simulation](#beacon-node-simulation)
    - [Visualising simulation metrics](#visualising-simulation-metrics)
  - [For developers](#for-developers)
    - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Windows](#windows)
    - [Linux, MacOS](#linux-macos)
    - [Raspberry Pi](#raspberry-pi)
    - [Makefile tips and tricks for developers](#makefile-tips-and-tricks-for-developers)
  - [License](#license)

## For users

### Connecting to testnets

> Nimbus should be able to connect to any of the testnets published in the [eth2-clients/eth2-testnets repo](https://github.com/eth2-clients/eth2-testnets/tree/master/nimbus).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nimbus connects to any of the testnets published in the [eth2-clients/eth2-testnets repo](https://github.com/eth2-clients/eth2-testnets/tree/master/nimbus).
```

Reviewer 3: I've used "should be able" here because we don't control everything about all the third-party testnets. We don't know if the published data is up-to-date at all times.

Reviewer 2: the assumption of correctness is implied generally, and there's no need to weasel here - we're committed to building a correct client and will fix any issues - an another example, if you run it on a computer with broken memory, it will also not work.

For example, connecting to our testnet0 is done with the following commands:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/status-im/nim-beacon-chain
cd nim-beacon-chain
source env.sh
nim scripts/connect_to_testnet.nims nimbus/testnet0
```

> The testnets are restarted every Tuesdays and integrate the changes for the past week.

Reviewer 3: This statement is not completely accurate. We don't make any promises regarding restarting `testnet1` and we say the following about `testnet0`:

> It's restarted once per week, usually in the evening hours on Monday (UTC).

Quote from here: https://github.com/eth2-clients/eth2-testnets/tree/master/nimbus/testnet0

## Interop (for other Eth2 clients)

To compare against Nimbus state transition, we provide the ncli tool:

* [ncli](ncli)

The interop scripts have been moved in a common repo, the interop relied on 0.8.3 specs however which had seen significant changes.

* [multinet](https://github.com/status-im/nim-beacon-chain/tree/master/multinet) - a set of scripts to build and run several Eth2 clients locally
* [interop branch](https://github.com/status-im/nim-beacon-chain/tree/interop)

## For researchers

### State transition simulation

The state transition simulator can quickly run the Beacon chain state transition function in isolation and output JSON snapshots of the state. The simulation runs without networking and blocks are processed without slot time delays.

```bash
# build and run the state simulator, then display its help ("-d:release" speeds it
# up substantially, allowing the simulation of longer runs in reasonable time)
make NIMFLAGS="-d:release" state_sim
build/state_sim --help
```

> ### Beacon node simulation

Reviewer 3: I think this should be called something like "Local network simulation". Beacon node simulation doesn't quite capture the fact that multiple nodes are launched and they talk over the network.

> The beacon node simulation will create a full peer-to-peer network of beacon nodes and validators, and run the beacon chain in real time. To change network parameters such as shard and validator counts, see [start.sh](tests/simulation/start.sh).

Reviewer 3: Most of the params are in `tests/simulation/vars.sh` nowadays. And the example below demonstrates how they are specified at the command line with `make` (the parameter names are different then). Perhaps we should list only what the Makefile supports and excepts.

```bash
# Clear data files from your last run and start the simulation with a new genesis block:
make VALIDATORS=192 NODES=6 USER_NODES=1 eth2_network_simulation

# In another terminal, get a shell with the right environment variables set:
./env.sh bash

> # In the above example, the network is prepared for 7 beacon nodes but one of

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't this say *but some of them*?

Author: I think one is correct

# them is not started by default (`USER_NODES`) - you can start it separately
# by running:
./tests/simulation/run_node.sh 0 # (or the 0-based node number of the missing node)

# Running a separate node allows you to test sync as well as see what the action
# looks like from a single nodes' perspective.
```

You can also separate the output from each beacon node in its own panel, using [multitail](http://www.vanheusden.com/multitail/):

```bash
make USE_MULTITAIL="yes" eth2_network_simulation
```

You can find out more about it in the [development update](https://our.status.im/nimbus-development-update-2018-12-2/).

_Alternatively, fire up our [experimental Vagrant instance with Nim pre-installed](https://our.status.im/setting-up-a-local-vagrant-environment-for-nim-development/) and give us yout feedback about the process!_

### Visualising simulation metrics

> Those [generic instructions from the Nimbus repo](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus/#metric-visualisation) apply here as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [generic instructions from the Nimbus repo](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus/#metric-visualisation) apply here as well.
```

```

You can also separate the output from each beacon node in its own panel, using [multitail](http://www.vanheusden.com/multitail/):

```bash
make USE_MULTITAIL="yes" eth2_network_simulation
```

You can find out more about it in the [development update](https://our.status.im/nimbus-development-update-2018-12-2/).

_Alternatively, fire up our [experimental Vagrant instance with Nim pre-installed](https://our.status.im/setting-up-a-local-vagrant-environment-for-nim-development/) and give us yout feedback about the process!_

### Visualising simulation metrics

The [generic instructions from the Nimbus repo](https://github.com/status-im/nimbus/#metric-visualisation) apply here as well.

Specific steps:

```bash
# This will generate the Prometheus config and the Grafana dashboard on the fly,
# based on the number of nodes (which you can control by passing something like NODES=6 to `make`).
make VALIDATORS=192 NODES=6 USER_NODES=0 eth2_network_simulation

# In another terminal tab, after the sim started:
cd tests/simulation/prometheus
prometheus
```

The dashboard you need to import in Grafana is "tests/simulation/beacon-chain-sim-all-nodes-Grafana-dashboard.json".

> ![monitoring dashboard](./media/monitoring.png)

Reviewer 2: png's quickly grow old and are difficult to maintain, not sure it's worth the cost

Author: There was some study that showed that images on Github repo retained people attention.

Reviewer 2: did it include out-of-date images and the disappointment that follows?

Reviewer 2: ie I'm not making it up - we have the same problem in chronicles where it's hard to make a PR because there are screenshotted examples in the readme that break and can't be regenerated except on a specific system
